Document gRPC client development! 📚 (#61)
higherkindness/mu-haskell: docs/docs/grpc.md

## Building a client

> Right now there are two options for building clients: using records or with `TypeApplications`. To give a proper introduction to both options let's consider in detail an example client for the following services:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways to build a gRPC client: 1) using a generic Haskell records, or 2) using the `TypeApplications` GHC extension. To show how to use each of them, and how they differ, let us consider an example client for the following services:
```

> Right now there are two options for building clients: using records or with `XTypeApplications`. To give a proper introduction to both options let's consider in detail an example client for the following services:

Reviewer 2: Usually, one writes either `TypeApplications` (because that's the parameter to `LANGUAGE` pragmas) or `-XTypeApplications` (because that's the one you enable it in ghci).

```protobuf
service Service {
  rpc getPerson (PersonRequest) returns (Person);
  rpc newPerson (Person) returns (PersonRequest);
  rpc allPeople (google.protobuf.Empty) returns (stream Person);
}
```

> Regardless of the approach we decide to use, we can construct a basic CLI for the client this way:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In both approaches, we can build a basic CLI program around our client, using the following `main` function: 
```

```haskell
import System.Environment

main :: IO ()
main = do
  let config = grpcClientConfigSimple "127.0.0.1" 8080 False
  Right client <- setupGrpcClient' config
  args <- getArgs
  case args of
    ["watch"]       -> watching client
    ["get", idp]    -> get client idp
    ["add", nm, ag] -> add client nm ag
    _               -> putStrLn "unknown command"
```

Where `watch`, `get` and `add` are the only valid 3 commands that our CLI is going to accept and call each respective service.

### Using records

> This option is a bit more verbose but it's also more explicit with the types and _"less magic"_ than the one with `TypeApplications`.

Reviewer 2: I would say this is more magic, due to the use of generics xD

> We need to define a new record type (hence the name) that declares the services our client is going to consume:

Reviewer 2: It's important to emphasize that the names of the fields **must** coincide with the methods in the service.

> We need to define a new record type (hence the name) that declares the services our client is going to consume. Remember that the names of the record fields **must match** exactly the methods in the service:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this approach, we define a record type to represent the service call. Each field in this record corresponds to an endpoint (a method in the remote service). The name of each field **must match** the name of the corresponding endpoint:
```

```haskell
import GHC.Generics (Generic)
import Mu.GRpc.Client.Record

data Call = Call
  { getPerson :: MPersonRequest -> IO (GRpcReply MPerson)
  , newPerson :: MPerson -> IO (GRpcReply MPersonRequest)
  , allPeople :: IO (ConduitT () (GRpcReply MPerson) IO ())
  } deriving Generic
```

Note that we had to derive `Generic`. We also need to tweak a little bit our `main` function:

```diff
main :: IO ()
main = do
   let config = grpcClientConfigSimple "127.0.0.1" 1234 False
-  Right client <- setupGrpcClient' config
+  Right grpcClient <- setupGrpcClient' config

> +  let client = buildService @Service @"" grpcClient

Reviewer 3: I'm a bit confused by `@""`. `""` is a singleton type?

Is there some other documentation where I can check the signature of `buildService`? If so, a link to that would be good.

Author: I agree, that bit is quite confusing, [here's the type signature](https://github.com/higherkindness/mu-haskell/blob/master/grpc/client/src/Mu/GRpc/Client/Record.hs#L46-L50) of `buildService` but you are not gonna like it 😂. I'll wait for Alejandro's feedback when he comes back to see what else to add/clarify on the docs 😉

Reviewer 3: Art.

Reviewer 2: The `@""` is a type-level string which defines the prefix of the service, something akin to the route where the service is located. I have been doubting for a while whether a type-level string is the best choice, or we should use a normal string (well, actually a `ByteString`) here instead.

We still have time to change the API, and we can even provide both versions.

   args <- getArgs
```

> Instead of building our client directly, we need to use `TypeApplications` (yes, we can't escape from `TypeApplications` either way 🤷🏼‍♂️) in a call to `buildService` to create the actual gRPC client.

Reviewer 2: That's not completely true, you can call the version using `Proxy`. But then you need to enable `ScopedTypeVariables` and use `(Proxy :: Proxy Service)`, which is even more verbose and harder to understand.

> After that, the implementation of the three service calls becomes quite trivial:

Reviewer 2: Usual comment applies here: try to avoid words like "simply" or "trivial", because the reader may not feel that way.

> Instead of building our client directly, we can use `TypeApplications` to call `buildService` to create the actual gRPC client. (You can also use `ScopedTypeVariables` and something like `(Proxy :: Proxy Service)` but it's a bit more verbose).

Reviewer: I am confused here... this subsection is about the generic record approach; so is the `TypeApplications` also used with the generic records? Or should this go to the next section?

Author: Yes, if you want the less verbose option, you need to use `TypeApplications` to generate the client with `buildService`, even when you choose the record approach, that's why the original wording reflects that surprising fact.

```haskell
import Text.Read (readMaybe)

get :: Call -> String -> IO ()
get client idPerson = do
  let req = MPersonRequest $ readMaybe idPerson
  putStrLn $ "GET: is there some person with id: " ++ idPerson ++ "?"
  res <- getPerson client req
  putStrLn $ "GET: response was: " ++ show res
```

> Notice the use of `readMaybe` to cast the strings to the appropiate type in a safe manner! 👆🏼

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Notice the use of `readMaybe` to convert the strings to the appropiate type in a safe manner! 👆🏼
```

Just to avoid people thinking we're `unsafeCoerce` ing here.

Author: Thanks pepe! ❤️

```haskell
add :: Call -> String -> String -> IO ()
add client nm ag = do
  let p = MPerson Nothing (Just $ T.pack nm) (readMaybe ag)
  putStrLn $ "ADD: creating new person " ++ nm ++ " with age " ++ ag
  res <- newPerson client p
  putStrLn $ "ADD: was creating successful? " ++ show res

watching :: Call -> IO ()
watching client = do
  replies <- allPeople client
  runConduit $ replies .| C.mapM_ print
```

### Using `TypeApplications`

With `TypeApplications` none of the above is needed, all you need to do is call `gRpcCall` with the appropiate service name as a type-level string, and the rest just _magically_ works! ✨

```haskell
import Mu.GRpc.Client.TyApps

get :: GrpcClient -> String -> IO ()
get client idPerson = do
  let req = MPersonRequest $ readMaybe idPerson
  putStrLn $ "GET: is there some person with id: " ++ idPerson ++ "?"
  response :: GRpcReply MPerson
    <- gRpcCall @Service @"getPerson" client req
  putStrLn $ "GET: response was: " ++ show response
```

Notice that the type signatures of our functions needed to change to receive the `GrpcClient` as an argument, instead of our custom record type.

```haskell

> add :: GrpcClient -> String -> String -> IO ()

Reviewer: Could we factor out the implementation of `add` above, next to the `main` function, and make it parametric on a `Person -> IO String` function? Same for the `get` function.

add client nm ag = do
  let p = MPerson Nothing (Just $ T.pack nm) (readMaybe ag)
  putStrLn $ "ADD: creating new person " ++ nm ++ " with age " ++ ag
  response :: GRpcReply MPersonRequest
    <- gRpcCall @Service @"newPerson" client p
  putStrLn $ "ADD: was creating successful? " ++ show response
```

> We are being a bit more explicit with the types (for example, `response :: GRpcReply MPersonRequest`) to help a bit the `show` function with the ambiguity.

Reviewer 2: I would rephrase this as "because GHC is not able to infer the type by its own".
